This is the third financial status report of the rust-analyzer project.

这是铁锈分析仪项目的第三份财务状况报告。

Since the [last
update](https://rust-analyzer.github.io/blog/2020/08/20/financial-report.html),
we’ve set up a [GitHub Sponsors
profile](https://github.com/sponsors/rust-analyzer) in addition to the
[OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/rust-analyzer). You can
support the project on whichever platform suits you best.

自从上次更新以来，除了OpenCollective之外，我们还设置了GitHub赞助商的个人资料。您可以在任何最适合您的平台上支持该项目。

rust-analyzer has also grown from an experimental Ferrous Systems
project to one that is slated to become Rust’s official solution for IDE
support, with multiple companies directly funding work on it. For that
reason, we’ll be posting future financial updates on the [Ferrous
Systems blog](https://ferrous-systems.com/blog/), as Ferrous runs the
OpenCollective and GitHub Sponsors fundraising.

锈蚀分析仪也已经从一个实验性的铁质系统项目发展成为锈蚀系统的官方IDE支持解决方案，有多家公司直接资助这方面的工作。(工业和信息化部电子科学技术情报研究所陈皓)出于这个原因，我们将在铁质系统博客上发布未来的财务更新，因为铁质运营着OpenCollective和GitHub赞助商的筹款活动。

(side note: if your company would like to support rust-analyzer, but
these platforms don’t fit into your procurement process or are otherwise
too hard to deal with, you can [contact Ferrous
Systems](https://ferrous-systems.com/) to figure out a solution)

(附注：如果您的公司希望支持防锈分析仪，但这些平台不适合您的采购流程，或者其他方面处理起来太难，您可以联系黑色金属系统公司来想出解决方案)

# 2020-07-01 to 2021-02-28

# 2020-07-01至2021-02-28

In these 8 months, you’ve supported the project with approximately
32500€ on OpenCollective, and 6500€ on GitHub Sponsors.

在这8个月里，你在openCollective网站上为该项目提供了大约32500欧元的支持，在giHub赞助商上为该项目提供了6500欧元的支持。

Host share, payment processing, and bank account fees amounted to around
6000€, leaving us with 33000€.

主机份额、支付处理和银行账户手续费总计约6,000欧元，剩下33000欧元。

We’ve paid 15000€ of that to rust-analyzer contributors, while the rest
went towards funding Jonas' time on the project.

我们已经向铁锈分析仪的贡献者支付了其中的15000欧元，而睡觉则用于资助乔纳斯的项目时间。

# 2021-03-01 to now

# 2021-03-01至今

Since March, you’ve supported rust-analyzer with around 21000€ on
OpenCollective and 6500€ on GitHub Sponsors, while the fees add up to
around 1000€ so far.

从三月份开始，你已经在openCollection.com上支持了大约21000欧元的防锈分析仪，在giHub赞助商上花费了6500欧元，而到目前为止，费用加起来大约是1,000欧元。

We haven’t yet completed the contributor payouts for this time frame and
will update when they happen.

我们还没有完成此时间范围内的贡献者支付，并将在发生时更新。

## Hired contributor: [Lukas Wirth](https://github.com/Veykril)

## 受雇投稿人：卢卡斯·沃斯(Lukas Wirth)

Your constant funding enabled us to hire [Lukas
Wirth](https://github.com/Veykril) as a working student! Lukas is being
coached by Jonas.

您的持续资助使我们得以聘请卢卡斯·沃斯作为在职学生！卢卡斯由乔纳斯执教。

## Sponsor highlight: Kraken

## 赞助商亮点：克拉肯

We’ve also received a generous 50000€ grant from Kraken during this
time. This enabled us to hire with confidence. You can read their
announcement here [blog
post](https://blog.kraken.com/post/7964/oxidizing-kraken-improving-kraken-infrastructure-using-rust/).
Thank you, Kraken!

在此期间，我们还收到了克拉肯慷慨的50000欧元赠款。这使我们能够有信心地招聘。你可以在这里阅读他们的公告和博客文章。谢谢你，克拉肯！

# Next Steps

# 下一步

In the coming months, we’ll complete the next batch of contributor
payouts and follow up with another quick update.

在接下来的几个月里，我们将完成下一批贡献者支付，并跟进另一次快速更新。